Course Description
==================

After the Red Sox won the World Series in 2004, the team website firmly linked the concept of baseball fandom with nationalism by selling fans citizenship in the “Red Sox Nation.” During this course, we will investigate the connections between being a fan (of baseball or football) and being a member of a nation. Out of the interplay of these two forms of identification, we will attempt to draw larger topographies incorporating ideas of the (heteronormative) family and (heteronormative) masculine into our sports nationalism.

The course will begin with establishing a common terminology that we will use with the literary texts in the middle of the quarter. We will read about nationalism, sexuality, masculinity and sports. From these readings, we will move to three baseball literary objects—in this case, novels: *The Great American Novel* (1973), *The Natural* (1952), and *Shoeless Joe* (1982). These novels emphasize an outsider’s approach to the game, and are not simply novels about teams or about athletes. We then transition to football with a day’s worth of reading about the sport and England. The three literary objects about English football, *Fever Pitch* (1992), *Among the Thugs* (1993), and *The Football Factory* (1996), cover both novel and memoir genre. The quarter will end with some totalizing gestures, helped by contemporary writings on baseball and football in the era of globalization. Interspersed will be extracts from film versions of the literary objects, or other film-based sources for what we are investigating.
