Course Requirements
===================

The reading of all texts *not* marked with an asterisk, yet mentioned in the syllabus, is required. The final grade will be calculated from class participation (30%), the first paper (30%), and the final paper (40%).

* **Class participation**: This portion of the grade is made up of attendance, the small writing journal on chalk, presentation/discussion, and office hours. Attendance in class is mandatory, and that includes intellectual attendance. Students are expected to have the day’s reading completed and to have a small set of questions of observations planned out.

As a check for preparation, students are required to post, starting Week Two (14 Jan), a small (< 300 word) working out of questions or concerns based on the discussion of class to come. The little journals will be posted to chalk by 23:00 the day before class, and they must be posted weekly. Reading each other’s posts is mandatory. Responding on chalk is strongly encouraged, so that class can begin with the proverbial feet already on the ground. Additionally, the chalk posts are ungraded, so students are encouraged to branch out—even including current examples of whatever they are discussing.

Additionally, during class, one or two students will be assigned to open the day’s discussion with some thoughts and questions developed from the readings and chalk postings for the class (5–10 minutes). After this introduction, I expect students to be engaged, as this class will be largely, if not entirely, discussion-driven. Hence, a lack of participation hurts not only the individual student’s grade, but also the ability of the rest of the class to get much out of the session.

Finally, every student must meet with me for a brief meeting during office hours by Week Five (8 Feb). This will be a casual opportunity for us to interact outside of the classroom, permitting me and the student to talk both about what we’ve liked about the class so far and about what needs improvement.

* **First Paper**: A first paper, of about 1750 words, is due at 23:30 on the second class meeting of Week Six (19 Feb). It must be submitted to me, fully formatted, via e-mail or chalk drop-box, as either a .doc, .pdf, .rtf, or .ps file. The paper should be a close reading of a section of one of the baseball novels, informed by the critical reading and discussion we have also done to date. It should not, however, be a recap of a class discussion. The close reading cannot be about any of the film clips we have watched. No reading beyond the scope of the course is necessary.

* **Final Paper**: A final paper is due at 23:30 on the Thursday of Finals Week (20 Mar). It should be about 2000 words long, and it must be submitted to me following the same procedures as the first paper. It should focus on the literary texts we read about football, but it should also incorporate the critical material and discussions from the first half of the quarter. It should also stretch beyond a close reading of a single text, and it can incorporate the film clips we have watched. Again, no external reading is necessary, and it is, in fact, discouraged.

**Your Requirements of Me**: The only materials presented to me that will receive a grade are the first and final papers. Your chalk posts are there only to show me that you are engaged with the course of the class, and, though ungraded, contribute to your participation grade. I will also make myself available, via office hours and email, to answer any concerns or problems you have finding secondary texts or understanding the reading, or to answer pretty much anything else related to the course. I will try to respond to emails promptly. All course materials, save books that are to be purchased from the Seminary Co-Op, will be available for download from chalk. I will also try to create an atmosphere in class where you can all learn from each other.
